1. Being physically active being physically active has been scientifically proven to lower stress due to fresh air, and also improves your physical health. Exercising with others is ideal in improving mental health because you are with people close to you who can understand your problems and will always be there for you.
2. Maintaining good relationships Not maintaining good relationships due to stress and pressures, whether it may be from work, school, or home, is not a good idea. Those around a person understand how they feel, and they will help you when needed. Always communicate with your loved ones and remember they are there for you.
3. When you work, do not procrastinate, and take multiple breaks. Many people believe that breaks are useless and only keep you from getting your work done, but if they are done in a timely manner and aren't too frequent, breaks help a person's focus remain consistent, and this will motivate them to continue working.
4. Be an optimist, not a pessimist. If your mental health is deteroriating and you are feeling too down, do not give up in life. know that you are currently in a deep hole, and you can always climb out of it with assistance and perseverance.
5. Use relaxation techniques Meditation, yoga, massages, and deep breathing exercises are all excellent relaxation techniques to help you escape your present reality. Doing these techniques daily will help you transition from a pessimist to an optimist.
6. Seek therapy or medical assistance. If all else fails, then that means your mental health condition is serious. A therapist will know what to do, and do not be afraid to seek mental help.
